# dotfiles development and testing

## Prerequisites

### Packer

TODO

### Vagrant

1.  vagrant-vnware-fusion plugin

    Note this is a licensed product - separate to the actual VMWare fustion software.

    ```sh
    vagrant plugin install vagrant-vmware-fusion
    vagrant plugin license vagrant-vmware-fusion <path_to_license>
    ```

## Basic Vagrant setup

1.  ISO's and images

    Create directory structure to hold ISOs and hypervisor/vagrant images outside of specific repositories. Note the use of the `/var` directory - this is intended to be mounted on the non-system disk.

    ```sh
    /var/media/images/vagrant
    /var/media/images/vbox
    /var/media/images/fusion
    /var/media/iso
    ```

    By default the VMWare provider will clone the vn into the `.vagrant` directory relative to the location of the `Vagrantfile`.
    This can be overriden with the `VAGRANT_VMWARE_CLONE_DIRECTORY` environment variable. Note this variable does not need to be unique per project.

2.  Home and cache

    The vagrant _home_ directory is used, amongst other things, to store box images. By default this is located in the user home directory - but it can get rather large and hence needs moving out. Similarly, we need somewhere sensible to store vmware images.

    ```sh
    /var/vagrant/home
    /var/vagrant/vmware-clone
    ```

    These are wired up using the following environment variables:

    ```sh
    export VAGRANT_HOME=/var/vagrant/home
    export VAGRANT_VMWARE_CLONE_DIRECTORY=/var/vagrant/vmware-clone
    ```

## Preparing the MacOS installer for use with Packer and Vagrant

Download MacOS installer to `/var/media/iso` directory.

The _osx-vm-templates_ git repository has been linked as a submodule. Note - the best practice is to use the packer builds as application agnostic base builds. In this way - the image configurations are geared towards the requirements for the baking process - not any specific application usage of the build. Any additional configuration of the images for any application specific requirements are there done through the `vagrantfile`. This means that it should not be necessary to make any alterations to the actual template repository.

The native MacOS installer does not support bootstrapping via vagrant. The `prepare_iso.sh` script exists to perform modifications to the image to this end.

```sh
sudo prepare_iso/prepare_iso.sh <path_to_source> <output directory>
# e.g.
# sudo prepare_iso/prepare_iso.sh "/var/media/iso/Install macos Sierra.xpp/" /var/media/iso/prepared"
```

Note if using virtualbox then support for remote management needs to be disabled
due to a freezing issue. This is done by passing the following additioning
options to prepare_iso.sh

```sh
-D DISABLE_REMOTE_MANAGEMENT
```

This defaults the image to use `vagrant` for the username and password of the admin user installed by the script. Use `-u` and `-p` to override this.

## Creating the Vagrant box image

The packer build pipeline automatically runs in all available updates. Hence - its worth re-running the pipeline when major updates are available.

1.  Run packer to create the base MacOS vagrant image.

    Note the provisioning delay of 30 seconds is recommended for any subsequent provisioning steps that involve Internet downloads.

    ```sh
    # note the filename has been changed from that generated by the prepare script
    cd packer
    packer build --only vmware-iso \
      --var iso_url="/var/media/iso/prepared/macOS_10_12_sierra.dmg" \
      --var provision_delay=30 \
      template.json
    mv packer_vmware-iso_vmware.box /var/media/images/vagrant/macOS_10_12_sierra_vmware.box
    ```

2.  Add the box to vagrant

        ```sh
        vagrant box add /var/media/images/vagrant/macOS_10_12_sierra_vmware.box --name macOS_10_12_sierra_vmware
        vagrant box list
        vagrant box remove <name> # to remove, if and when required
        ```

## Vagrantfile

Make any environment specific changes to the Vagrantfile.

To show the number of logical cores on the host box

```sh
sysctl -n hw.ncpu
```

## Basic Vagrant usage

```sh
vagrant up
vagrant suspend
vagrant resume
vagrant reload # use if changes made to the Vagrantfile
vagrant halt # bring back up with a vagrant up
vagrant destroy
```

## Managing running Vagrant instances

Show state of all active Vagrant environments for the current user.

```sh
vagrant global-status
```
